Dataset Viewer, Structure and Libraries docs (#1070)
huggingface/hub-docs: docs/hub/datasets-file-names-and-splits.md

# File names and splits

To host and share your dataset, create a dataset repository on the Hugging Face Hub and upload your data files.

This guide will show you how to name your files and directories in your dataset repository when you upload it and enable all the Dataset Hub features like the Dataset Viewer.
A dataset with a [supported structure and file format](./datasets-adding#files-formats) automatically has a dataset viewer on its dataset page on the Hub.

> Note that you can also define your own custom structure, see the documentation on [Manual Configuration](./datasets-manual-configuration) for more information

Author: Yep good idea ! I like your suggestion, and I think we can replace "patterns below" by "structures below"

```suggestion
Note that if none of the structures below suits your case, you can have more control over how you define splits and subsets with the [Manual Configuration](./datasets-manual-configuration).
```

## Basic use-case

If your dataset isn't split into [train/validation/test splits](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Training,_validation,_and_test_data_sets), the simplest dataset structure is to have one file: `data.csv` (this works with any [supported file format](./datasets-adding#files-formats) and any file name).

Your repository will also contain a `README.md` file, the [dataset card](./dataset-cards) displayed on your dataset page.

```
my_dataset_repository/
├── README.md
└── data.csv
```

## Splits

> Certain patterns in the dataset repository can be used to assign certain files to train/validation/test splits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Some patterns in the dataset repository can be used to assign certain files to train/validation/test splits.
```

:fr: :smile:

# File names and splits

To host and share your dataset, create a dataset repository on the Hugging Face Hub and upload your data files.

This guide will show you how to name your fiels and directories in your dataset repository when you upload it and enable all the Dataset Hub features like the Dataset Viewer.
A dataset with a supported structure and file format (`.txt`, `.csv`, `.parquet`, `.jsonl`, `.mp3`, `.jpg`, `.zip` etc.) automatically has a dataset viewer on its dataset page on the Hub.

Note that you can also define your own custom structure, see the documentation on [Manual Configuration](./datasets-manual-configuration) for more information

## Main use-case

> The simplest dataset structure has two files: `train.csv` and `test.csv` (this works with any supported file format).

Reviewer 2: I would say that it's simpler to only have 1 data file, ie. `data.csv`. In which case it will be considered as the train split. Maybe mention this first, no?

Reviewer 2: The train.csv and test.csv case is explained later.

```
my_dataset_repository/
├── README.md
└── data/
    ├── train.csv
    ├── test.csv
    └── validation.csv
```

### Keywords

There are several ways to name splits. Validation splits are sometimes called "dev", and test splits may be referred to as "eval".
These other split names are also supported, and the following keywords are equivalent:

- train, training
- validation, valid, val, dev
- test, testing, eval, evaluation

Therefore the structure below is a valid repository:

```
my_dataset_repository/
├── README.md
└── data/
    ├── training.csv
    ├── eval.csv
    └── valid.csv
```

### Custom split name

If your dataset splits have custom names that aren't `train`, `test`, or `validation`, then you can name your data files like `data/<split_name>-xxxxx-of-xxxxx.csv`.

Here is an example with three splits, `train`, `test`, and `random`:

```
my_dataset_repository/
├── README.md
└── data/
    ├── train-00000-of-00003.csv
    ├── train-00001-of-00003.csv
    ├── train-00002-of-00003.csv
    ├── test-00000-of-00001.csv
    ├── random-00000-of-00003.csv
    ├── random-00001-of-00003.csv
    └── random-00002-of-00003.csv

> ```

Reviewer 2: cool, but it's weird to a newcomer, I think. Do we plan to propose a simple syntax (without `-of-00003` and maybe without the heading zeros)?

Reviewer 2: OK, it's written below. So... should we even show the complex syntax? Does it help?

Author: I moved it to the bottom of the page. After the "multiple files per split" paragraph it feels easier to understand

### Multiple files per split

> If one of your splits comprises several files, 🤗 Datasets can still infer whether it is the train, validation, and test split from the file name.

Reviewer 2: Maybe not mention `🤗 Datasets` here

For example, if your train and test splits span several files:

```
my_dataset_repository/
├── README.md
├── train_0.csv
├── train_1.csv
├── train_2.csv
├── train_3.csv
├── test_0.csv
└── test_1.csv
```

Make sure all the files of your `train` set have *train* in their names (same for test and validation).
Even if you add a prefix or suffix to `train` in the file name (like `my_train_file_00001.csv` for example),

> 🤗 Datasets can still infer the appropriate split.

Reviewer 2: same
